Well, good evening.
Welcome to the Well Community Church in Merry Christmas to all of you.
We have some special VIPs that are in the room.
If you come to the Well, typically, you know we have a wonderful children's ministry, but we decided to embrace it tonight.
We've got our kids here who are with us in our gathering, so you can give our kids a hand.
That'd be great.
We deeply value the next generation, but we also know that that means there's gonna be some great artwork being done on those coloring books, and so those are for the kids, by the way, not necessarily for you as parents, but parents, if you don't wanna take a pic of the art that's being created and put it on your social media, totally fine.
It also means, by the way, with the kids in here, that we probably need to be a little tighter by way of time, because their attention span may be even shorter than yours, and so we're just mindful of that, but also it may get a little loud.
And so as we hear the next generation, let's just celebrate that we're a church family celebrating those kids and grandbabies that are in here with us as well.
If we have not met yet, my name's Brad.
I'm one of the pastors here at The Well and really delighted to share with you here this Christmas season and try to bring our focus back to the real reason for the Christmas holiday, which is Jesus, of course, and what He's
done for us, as you can imagine, Christmas, the content's kind of the content, right?
So it's the incarnation of Jesus, it's the manger, it's the wise men, it's Mary and Joseph, it's all of that.
And so you're always tempted to do something different.
And every time it seems, we start talking about that, we go, or we could just actually talk about Jesus and just come back to the gospel.
And so that's what we're gonna do here tonight.
But I do acknowledge that there are some family traditions that might be unique to your family.
I want you to think just for a moment,
What does your family do that might be unique to your family as it relates to Christmas?
So maybe your family, I don't know, makes this certain soup that grandma always makes.
Maybe you got Mennonite roots, you're from Canada, you make Zui bakk or whatever that stuff is.
Maybe you play dominoes and like my grandfather used to always win.
He was a cheating dog.
He knew every domino we had.
Maybe your family can't wait to put the batteries in your sweater.
I don't know what your family traditions are, but I would bet if we did a little survey, they're all over the place.
Now, thankfully, as a faith tradition, even though the well is a non-denominational church, even though we don't really have an official theological tribe,
We are following in the footsteps of men and women recorded for us in the scriptures who follow Jesus and in church history who follow Jesus.
And thankfully they left the breadcrumbs on the trail for us.
And for the last several weeks, we've been talking a little bit about the idea of Advent.
And we'd like to sort of unpack that a little bit more in our time together.
For some of you, it's a familiar thing.
Maybe you have a faith tradition that practiced Advent, but for some it might be new.
And so it would be good just to kind of
walk through it.
The word Advent comes from the Latin word Adventus.
It means coming or arrival.
And it really holds in the Christian faith a bit of a double meaning.
One is we celebrate the coming or the arrival of Jesus in his first coming, which of course is celebrated in the Christmas season, the incarnation of Christ.
But we also look forward to the second Advent or the second coming of Christ when he will return.
And Advent typically is celebrated four weeks or so before Christmas.
And depending on your faith tradition, there's different symbolisms that came with the advent.
There was an evergreen wreath symbolizing the undying love of God.
There was typically that wreath was circular in nature and the unending or unfailing faithfulness of God.
And in those four weeks preceding Christmas, you would like candles.
Each of those candles brought up a different purpose or meaning to it.
And those candles would be lit typically during church.
You might ask, by the way, why candles?
The Bible is going to say of Jesus that in him was life and this life was the light of men.
And so there's this recognition in lighting these candles that it reminds us of who Jesus is and of what he did.
And so those candles would be lit typically in church, but also at homes.
And so whether it was once a week or maybe throughout that week as your family gathered for dinner, which used to be a thing, I think we've lost the art of the family gathers at the dinner table, might be worth
Maybe circling back to that one, there's something to be said about a father lighting a candle at the beginning of a meal reminding his family about who Jesus is enjoying the meal and then blowing that candle out.
That'd be beautiful to bring that back.
But the purpose of Advent, regardless of what kind of tradition you celebrated, what kind of accoutrements went with that Advent season, it was designed to cause you to slow down, to pause, and to focus on Jesus.
Now, things have changed through the years, but I would imagine your Christmas holidays are very similar to mine in that somewhere around mid-November, things are getting weird.
You develop a personal relationship with the Amazon delivery guy.
Okay, he's at your home more than you are.
Post Thanksgiving, you probably start listening to some Christmas music.
Maybe if you love God, you're drinking your weight in eggnog, preferably producers eggnog, it's the best.
Maybe
Maybe you start making cookies and putting on weight like it's your job.
I mean, it's just things begin to shift after that holiday season.
And I don't know about you, but I've noticed at least in my life, it's easy to get distracted and it's easy to lose focus.
So Advent just kind of brings us back.
Now, why is Advent significant?
Well, the reality is it reminds us of what Jesus did in saving us from our sin.
Now, whether we like the idea or not, or even agree with the idea or not, we are all sinful people.
That's not a very popular concept to talk about.
And in fact, many people say, well, I don't believe in that.
And that's fine.
It's very similar, though, to saying, well, I don't really believe in gravity.
Like, whether you believe in it or not really is not the point.
Your belief in it doesn't make it real or not real.
It actually is a reality in our life, whether we're willing to acknowledge that or not.
And I mean that, of course, respectfully.
And the reason that significant is there is a problem with the human condition called sin, and there is nothing we can do about that.
That we are sinners both by deed, which means we have the capacity to do awful things.
We are also sinners by nature.
We are actually born sinful.
In fact, the Bible goes far as to say that there's none righteous, not even one.
that all of us have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God, and even our good deeds compared to a holy God are like filthy rags.
Now we might be a more moral person than our neighbor, but it's really not about them.
It's really us and the God who created us.
And so with that, as different as we all are from different
backgrounds, different ethnicities, different socioeconomic backgrounds, different maybe even homes that we have come from.
We all inherit the same fundamental set of issues that we're processing whether we knew it or not.
One, we inherit death, both spiritually and physically.
Something inside now is dead in us spiritually and in need of what Jesus said to be born again.
But we're also experiencing physical death.
Because of sin, we experience cancer, we experience death, we experience illness, we experience the capacity for humans to do awful things.
Second, we inherit shame and guilt.
The interesting thing about shame and guilt is it's much like the toddlers that are in the room even here this evening who when you go home tonight, they have the chocolate literally on their face and you say, did you eat the cookie I told you not to eat from?
And they will come up with all kinds of ways to justify the fact that even though the evidence is on their face, it wasn't them.
And the reality is we are very similar when it comes to sin, we tend to cover and to hide, we're just growing up toddlers.
And we inherit that from sin.
We also inherit corruption.
Corruption means that the image of God that we are created in is defaced.
It's not erased, but something's wrong.
Evidence by you just watch the news and you think, how could someone do that?
to another person.
And you just realize that there's a brokenness that we're experiencing, then the final thing is we inherit autonomy.
And autonomy is the sort of hardwired tendency to do life on our own alone without God.
Now, in a Western civilization, that fits like hand and glove.
We are very good at that.
In fact, we prefer that to be a self-made man, a self-made woman, to be a person who's in charge of our own life.
We make our own decisions.
tells us what to do.
We actually prefer that.
The problem is, is it flies in the face of a biblical worldview.
In fact, the Bible is gonna begin with a sentence that is worth acknowledging and maybe revisiting.
In Genesis chapter one, the Bible begins by throwing a proverbial shot across our prideful bow in that it says, in the beginning, God, which is a very creative way
in gracious way for God to say, the world does not revolve around us.
We are not in charge.
We are not in control.
We did not create the world.
He did.
And so just to start there is a really interesting place to begin.
And so with that, Advent brings us back to that reality.
Now, thankfully, we are not without hope.
And in fact, the Bible says that the wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ, our Lord.
There are four weeks, as we mentioned, to Advent I.
It's the reflection of hope that we have an anticipation from deep in the pages of our Old Testament of the Savior that would one day come.
In Isaiah chapter 7, it says, therefore, the Lord Himself will give you a sign.
Behold, a virgin will be with child and will bear a son, and you will call his name Immanuel, which means God with us.
And sure enough, as you
reflect on the nativity scenes that may be even in your homes right now.
There is an acknowledgement that here's Mary and Joseph in the manger in Bethlehem and Jesus, of course, being born, God with us, Emmanuel.
Week two of Advent is peace.
In Isaiah chapter nine, it says, a child will be born to us and a son will be given to us and the government will rest on his shoulders.
And his name will be called and tell me if this sounds familiar to you.
His name will be called Wonderful Counselor.
mighty God, eternal Father, Prince of Peace, the lyrics of the song we literally just sang together.
And that's who Jesus is, literally our Prince of Peace, because what he does is he reconciles us to a holy God.
In fact, the Bible says that although we were formerly alienated, hostile in mind, and engaged in evil deeds, he has now reconciled us to himself through his fleshly body through death in order to present him before him, holy and blameless.
and beyond reproach, that the beauty of the gospel is not just that Jesus was an example, he's not just a moral teacher who is an example, and he's not a martyr, he's the savior, which means what he did was what we couldn't do, he lived a perfect life, he was made like us and all things yet found without sin, and he went to the cross to make a payment for sin because of the wages of sin is indeed death, but he made that payment that when you receive Jesus Christ,
The wrath of God is poured out upon him, his righteousness given to us, and therefore we are reconciled to God.
In fact, Romans chapter five tells us, therefore having been justified by faith, we actually have peace with God.
The beauty of being justified by faith is that the Christian life is not about earning at all.
You cannot earn your way to God.
You cannot close the gap between sinful you or me and a holy God.
We can't bridge that gap at all.
He actually does it for us.
Therefore, we are declared righteous by faith, not by our works.
Week three of Advent, of course, is joy, where the Bible tells us that for us for you and Micah 5-2, as for you Bethlehem, two little among the clans of Judah.
From you, one will go forth for me to be a ruler in Israel.
His going forth are from long ago, from days of eternity.
It's interesting to me the obscurity of the incarnation.
Like if you really think about it, here's God who created the world, spoke it into existence, shaped us, shaped us.
He created the stars as if an afterthought and yet God reveals himself and the plan of salvation in the most humble of ways.
Like if you were God and you had the opportunity to reveal your plan of salvation for your creation that you love, how would you do it?
I mean, I would imagine there'd have to be some sort of fanfare, right?
Big booming voice from the skies, you know, some sort of like, I don't know, laser light show.
And here comes your savior that you're providing.
I mean, it would probably be with some sort of pomp and circumstance.
And yet when you look at the story of the incarnation of Jesus Christ, God in the flesh, it's almost scandalous.
You've got Jesus being born.
By the way, Mary conceived of the Holy Spirit, which brought all kinds of questions in her culture of how she, who was a virgin, could bear a son.
She gives birth in a manger of all places.
Do you have any FFA people in the house?
I mean, can you imagine the stench of a manger?
I mean, just the smell, the flies?
In the city of Bethlehem, which was like the most who cares city in your Bible.
I mean, nobody cared about Bethlehem.
It was literally a place of nothing.
And yet he's born there, and he's born as an infant, the most fragile of things.
I mean, some of you are holding infants in this room.
Imagine the fragility of the infant Jesus, and that was the plan of God for redemption.
It's amazing, and yet sure enough, that's what he chose to reveal his redemption that brought joy to us all.
And the first people, by the way, to be told of the baby that was gonna be born were a group of shepherds out in the field.
Do you have any idea how lowly a shepherd was?
Let's just put it this way.
If there was a career day happening at your local high school, the table for shepherd was not queued up.
Nobody was waiting at that table, okay?
You were a shepherd because your dad was probably a shepherd and your granddad was probably a shepherd.
So you were a shepherd, which meant you were a bit of a social outcast because a shepherd was out with the sheep, out in the fields.
which meant you were out sleeping in the stench, and yet those are the first people told of the savior of the world being born in the manger in Bethlehem, and they came.
There were also wise men that came, and they brought gifts, you all remember the gifts, of course, gold, frankincense, and mer.
Listen to what they said when they saw the star that rested over the manger where Jesus was.
It says, when they saw the star, they rejoiced exceedingly with great joy.
And there's a little redundant, don't you think?
But the superlatives there give you the idea that Jesus now is the expression of the joy of the Father to redeem mankind from our sins.
The fourth and final week was the week of love.
Now, whether you're a church person or not, most of us have some sort of familiarity, at least with John 3 16.
Whether it's because you read it, whether it's because you saw the guy in the end zone with the sign and you wondered what it was so you googled it, but it says that God so loved the world that he gave is only begotten Son.
that whoever believes in him would not perish, but have everlasting life.
For God to not send his son into the world to judge the world, but that the world would be saved through him.
If you took your Bible from Genesis to Revelation and just dumped it into chat GPT and said, I want a summary of the Bible.
What is the Bible about?
It's about a sovereign and holy God who created the world, formed us in his image, but we rebelled against him and the rest of the Bible is the greatest
rescue plan driven by the love of God for us that you could ever imagine, culminating with God, literally incarnating, full deity, clothing himself in humanity that he might die in our place, the death that we should have died.
That is the highest expression of love that you would lay down your life for someone who doesn't deserve it.
It's interesting to me, by the way, when you talk to people about Christians, they go, well, Christians are so arrogant.
I'm like, okay, wait a second.
What do we have to be arrogant about?
I mean, literally the thing that makes us followers of Jesus is the fact that we looked in the mirror and realized we are a mess and we are broken and we cannot please God.
We cannot do what God is asking us to do.
And so we wave the white flag and say, we can't do it.
Jesus, we need you in our life.
The only thing we did to contribute to our salvation is actually needed in the first place.
No place for arrogance to a Christian.
And sure enough, here we are now recipients of the love of God that God made him who knew no sin to be sin on our behalf that we might become the righteousness of God in him.
And in fact, in Ephesians chapter two, we're reminded that God being rich in mercy because of his great love with which he loved us while we were dead in our transgressions made us alive together with Christ by grace.
We've been saved.
And God demonstrated his own love for us and that while we were yet sinners, he died for us.
So what is this Christmas season about?
Well, this Christmas season is about a God who loves you so much that he launched a rescue plan, maybe even for you.
And I don't know what your inner critic says of yourself.
Do you have one of those?
Where you look in the mirror and you just kind of feel self condemnation.
You know, like, I don't know, you just do something like, oh, you could have done that better.
Or maybe next year, you need to have a better year because this year, things got a little out of hand.
So come on.
You're kind of pep-talking yourself into not being so awful.
Well, what does the voice of God sound like in your life?
For a lot of people, it's also a voice of condemnation.
As if God somehow is ashamed of you or as God somehow is upset that you keep doing what you're doing.
He's like, oh, you're doing that again.
Like I'm sick and tired of you doing that again.
And yet I don't think that's the heart of the Father.
In fact, I think the heart of the Father is far more invitational to say, hey, you know, you don't have to live like that anymore.
Now, I've got a way for you that's different.
And if you would embrace Jesus Christ in your life, the Bible says, if anyone's in Christ, we're actually new creatures, old things pass away, new things have come.
You know, you don't have to live the next year the way you did the previous.
Like it could be different.
What do you want to do?
And in that, that is what the Christmas season is about.
It's the invitation.
The gift is there.
You have to receive it, you have to open it, you have to embrace it, but the gift is there.
And what a gift it is that Jesus Christ, by His grace, would die for us.
It is the love of God on full display.
Dietrich Bonhoeffer, I'll close with this.
He said this about Advent.
He said, the celebration of Advent is possible only to those who are troubled in soul, who know themselves to be poor and imperfect.
and we look forward to something greater to come.
Friend, I don't know what brought you here.
I don't know where you're at in terms of your relationship with God.
But I do know that there is hope and that there is a God who loves you.
And here in this Advent season, if we can focus on Him, the greatest gift ever offered to us by His grace, we can experience His love and be made new.
Amen?
Well, let's pray together.
Father, as we celebrate this Advent season, we're just so grateful
For the gift of love, that is Jesus.
And we're just mindful, Lord, that you are doing an incredible thing, calling people to yourself.
And we here in this Christmas season wanna look beyond all of the pomp and circumstance that can surround this holiday season.
Wonderful as it all might be.
And instead, Lord, we might focus with clarity on you.
And for some, that's a reminder that you've done a great work in their life.
And so for that God, we're grateful.
We're just grateful this Christmas season.
Our hearts are full.
But for others, Lord, they're still considering who you are.
And may even now you warm their hearts to the truth of a God who loves them and created them in your image and called them out of darkness into light.
And so we'll celebrate that together.
Be glorified.
I pray this Christmas season as we point to Jesus, the love of God on full display.
We pray this in Jesus' name.
Amen.